Describe why you want to complete this BAE Systems programme:
Most candidates can describe an interest engineering but much fewer can show one. Since the age of 6 - when me and my father built my first computer - I have had access to the expansive knowledge base available on the internet. I have slowly built up my own knowledge base and can confidently claim proficiency in an array of interesting topics, most of which conveniently relate to engineering. As a result of my skill set, I have zeroed in on pursuing engineering. I believe BAE System's domains align closely with my own interests.
Describe how you will benefit from undertaking this programme with BAE Systems:
Within the last year I have solidified engineering - particularily aerospace - as my trajectory and aim. By partaking in this programme, I plan to gain insight to what positions are available and how day to day work life looks. I have interest in any sector which involves the assembly or design of mechanical or electrical systems and I wish to confirm which domains interest me the most. More over, this programme will give me something my self-directed projects do not have. Exposure to collaborative workflows and professional enviroments.
Describe why BAE Systems should select you. Think about your skills, qualities, characteristics, hobbies, interests, and personal achievements:
Software, mechanical and electrical engineering have been my genuine passion for most of my life. I began my journey at 11 years old in primary school where i completed a CodeAcademy course for c++ and received a certificate. This sparked my love for designing and assembling complex systems. Fast forward a couple years after near daily playing with Python and C, my father bought me my first soldering station - A Weller WE kit. I became familiar with micro-soldering and controllers such as the ESP32 and Pi Pico. I developed an interest for Cyber security and embarked on my first proper project - Roboscan - a Sub GHz, Rf, NFC and IR multi-tool that taught me common practices and methods regarding network and signal work. Today, 5 years later, my passion for making things with my hands is still ongoing. Today I am focused on my First Principles drone design and high voltage motorcycle. alfred-leigh.co.uk | Github: a365l
Describe what skills you would like to develop or improve by completing this programme:
I wish to develop skills standard to the professional industry. In particular I'd like to learn the workflow methods of planning and documenting projects. I attempted to research this and have taught my self about PDS documents, trades study and a failure log. However, observing a industry leader like BAE would be most beneficial towards gaining insight to standard practices. I also like to learn about collaborative techniques and engineering role hierarchies.